.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii copynesl.1
.\"
.TH COPYNESL "1" "April 2009" "Unix" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
copynesl \- Portable software for the CopyNES
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B copynesl 
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]... [\fIINPUT-FILES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBcopynesl\fR interfaces with the CopyNES and provides tools
related to CopyNES operation and manipulation of NES ROM files.
.PP
The CopyNES is a tool for dumping and analyzing NES game 
cartridges. It can also be used as a development tool for 
testing software on the NES.
.PP
Functionality requiring direct interfacing with the CopyNES 
requires the libcopynes library.
.PP
Command line arguments are seperated into commands and options.  
\fBcopynesl\fR accepts 1 command and each command accepts multiple
arguments.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR  \fB\-\-dump\-cart=\fR\fIplugin\fR
Requires libcopynes.  Requires \fB--output-file\fR or 
\fB--output-format\fR to be set.  Use \fIplugin\fR to connect to 
the CopyNES and pull the ROM data from the currently running 
cartridge. 
.TP 
\fB\-p\fR \fB\-\-play\-mode\fR
Requires libcopynes.  Put the copynes into playmode.
Playmode is used for playing nes cartridges directly
on the CopyNES.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fB\-\-copynes\-version\fR
Requires libcopynes.  Print out the CopyNES version 
and bios version of the CopyNES.
.IP "-l --list-plugins"
Print out a detailed listing of available plugins
to stdout.  This is useful for helping to determine
what plugins and mappers to use for cartridge dumping.
.IP "-t --convert"
Convert the given input files to the provide output
format.  Requires at least 1 \fB--input-file\fR option and either 
\fB--output-file\fR or \fB--output-format\fR to be set.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-m\fR  \fB\-\-mapper=\fR\fImappernumber\fR
Specify the mapper number to use in output ROMS.
.IP "-i --input-file=file"
Specify a file to be used as input.  Extensions are 
used to determine file format, so only specific 
extensions are accepted.
.IP "-o --output-file=file"
Specify a file to be used as output.  Extensions are
used to determine file format, so only specific 
extensions are accepted.
.IP "-f --output-format=formatstring"
Specify the output format.  Possible format strings
are: 
.B pgr 
.B chr 
.B wram 
.B nes 
.B unif
.IP "-D --data-port=device"
Default: /dev/ttyUSB0

Specify the serial device to use for the CopyNES 
data port.
.IP "-C --config-port=device"
Default: /dev/ttyUSB1

Specify the serial device to use for the CopyNES 
configuration port.
.SH INPUT AND OUTPUT OPTIONS
Commands requiring input must provide one or more
input files.  Input files can be specified either
using
.BI "--input-file" " file"
or by any non option command arguments. 

Commands requiring output options follow
the following structure.
If one or more output files are
specified, output will be put into those files.  The 
format of the output in that case will be based on the
extension of the output file.  If there are no output 
files specified, the output will be dumped to stdout.
The 
.B --output-format
option must be specified in this case and
only one file type can be output this way.

Valid extentions for input and output files are:
 .pgr
 .chr
 [.wram | .wrm]
 .nes
 [.unif | .unf]

Case is ignored in extensions.
.SH FILES
.I /usr/local/etc/copynesl/config
.RS
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR copynesl (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.copynesl/config
.RS
Per user configuration file. See
.BR copynesl (5)
for further details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP COPYNES_PLUGINS
If non-null the full directory path containing the
CopyNES Plugins.
.SH AUTHOR
Bjorn Hedin <cradelit@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR copynesl (5)
